resume_public.md, before:

# Nich Secord

Woodinville, Washington, United States

## Contact

_For contact information, please send a request to contact@secord.io._

## Summary

- Versatile frontend-focused engineer with over five years of professional experience building modern web applications using **C#**, **TypeScript**, **React**, and **Node.js**, leveraging both **REST** and **GraphQL** technologies.
- Generalist technologist committed to developing software solutions that address complex systemic challenges, with a particular interest in technologies that enable broader human and economic cooperation.
- Leader and skilled mentor who empowers junior developers to confidently contribute and challenge existing technical paradigms.
- Adaptive learner actively integrating emerging technologies, with a focus on expanding technological toolkit through continuous skill acquisition and AI-assisted workflow optimizations.
- Strong technical communication skills that translate complex technical concepts into clear, actionable documentation.

## Experience

### Tesla <small>(June 2021 — Present)</small>

#### Location

Bellevue, Washington, United States

#### Roles

- **Senior Software Engineer (February 2024 — Present)**
- Software Engineer (March 2022 — February 2024)
- Associate Software Engineer (June 2021 — March 2022)

#### Key Achievements

- Designed and engineered an efficient and performant replacement to Tesla's legacy Payment Estimator used in all sales centers across North America enabling customers to explore and compare financing options with clarity and confidence.
- Developed bedrock financial platform tools using **React**, **TypeScript**, **Node.js**, Tesla's proprietary Design System, and **C#** with **.NET** to efficiently maintain configurations of critical parameters used across the entire global business for pricing, financial partner integration, captive financing, and customer order management.
- Contributed to a critical shift in frontend architecture by moving business logic to backend services, reducing frontend complexity, and improving system robustness while increasing overall engineering scalability across multiple teams.
- Proactively conducted user research by visiting Tesla sales centers to gather direct feedback on the Payment Estimator, improving the tool's usability and design based on frontline employee insights.

### Barn Pros (March 2020 – June 2021)

#### Location

Monroe, Washington, United States

- Lead Web Developer

#### Key Achievements

- Single-handedly architected entire software ecosystem and design system from scratch, responsible for all decisions regarding technology stack and architecture.
- Engineered bespoke and intuitive frontend applications using **TypeScript**, **React**, and Ionic supported by **Jest**, **React Testing Library**, and Storybook.
- Engineered microservice backends using **TypeScript**, **Node.js**, **Nest.js**, **Mikro-ORM**, **GraphQL**, **Redis**, and **Postgres**.
- Deployed applications with **Docker** and **Kubernetes** on **Digital Ocean**.

### BrandGen.io (June 2020 – September 2020)

#### Location

Burlington, Vermont, United States

#### Roles

- Web Developer (Remote)

#### Key Achievements

- Developed high quality complex UI components using **TypeScript**, **React**, **Redux**, **Material UI**, and **Styled-Components**.
- Worked closely with designer to implement pixel-perfect designs.
- Participated in weekly meetings with stakeholders to determine product direction.

## Education

- _Kubernetes for Developers (LFD 259)_, March 2021
- _University of Washington Full-Stack Web Development Certification Program_, May 2019 – November 2019
- _Bellevue College_, 2016 – 2019

---

_Last updated 2025-03-30_

Commit message:

feat(Experience): Improve descriptions in Barn Pros section

resume_public.md, after:

# Nich Secord

Woodinville, Washington, United States

## Contact

_For contact information, please send a request to contact@secord.io._

## Summary

- Versatile frontend-focused engineer with over five years of professional experience building modern web applications using **C#**, **TypeScript**, **React**, and **Node.js**, leveraging both **REST** and **GraphQL** technologies.
- Generalist technologist committed to developing software solutions that address complex systemic challenges, with a particular interest in technologies that enable broader human and economic cooperation.
- Leader and skilled mentor who empowers junior developers to confidently contribute and challenge existing technical paradigms.
- Adaptive learner actively integrating emerging technologies, with a focus on expanding technological toolkit through continuous skill acquisition and AI-assisted workflow optimizations.
- Strong technical communication skills that translate complex technical concepts into clear, actionable documentation.

## Experience

### Tesla <small>(June 2021 — Present)</small>

#### Location

Bellevue, Washington, United States

#### Roles

- **Senior Software Engineer (February 2024 — Present)**
- Software Engineer (March 2022 — February 2024)
- Associate Software Engineer (June 2021 — March 2022)

#### Key Achievements

- Designed and engineered an efficient and performant replacement to Tesla's legacy Payment Estimator used in all sales centers across North America enabling customers to explore and compare financing options with clarity and confidence.
- Developed bedrock financial platform tools using **React**, **TypeScript**, **Node.js**, Tesla's proprietary Design System, and **C#** with **.NET** to efficiently maintain configurations of critical parameters used across the entire global business for pricing, financial partner integration, captive financing, and customer order management.
- Contributed to a critical shift in frontend architecture by moving business logic to backend services, reducing frontend complexity, and improving system robustness while increasing overall engineering scalability across multiple teams.
- Proactively conducted user research by visiting Tesla sales centers to gather direct feedback on the Payment Estimator, improving the tool's usability and design based on frontline employee insights.

### Barn Pros (March 2020 – June 2021)

#### Location

Monroe, Washington, United States

#### Roles

- Lead Web Developer

#### Key Achievements

- Sole developer for a custom software ecosystem that transformed Barn Pros' internal operations, creating bespoke applications for employee time tracking and construction invoicing with Smartsheet integration to improve operational efficiency and reduce administrative overhead.
- Developed intuitive frontend interfaces using **TypeScript**, **React**, and **Ionic** with comprehensive testing via **Jest** and **React Testing Library**, creating a robust and maintainable application architecture.
- Designed and implemented independent microservices using **TypeScript**, **Node.js**, and **Nest.js**, exploring modular system architecture to enable flexible and scalable backend development for business-critical applications.
- Implemented containerization using **Docker** and explored **Kubernetes** deployment strategies to enable scalable and flexible application infrastructure for business-critical services.

### BrandGen.io (June 2020 – September 2020)

#### Location

Burlington, Vermont, United States

#### Roles

- Web Developer (Remote)

#### Key Achievements

- Developed high quality complex UI components using **TypeScript**, **React**, **Redux**, **Material UI**, and **Styled-Components**.
- Worked closely with designer to implement pixel-perfect designs.
- Participated in weekly meetings with stakeholders to determine product direction.

## Education

- _Kubernetes for Developers (LFD 259)_, March 2021
- _University of Washington Full-Stack Web Development Certification Program_, May 2019 – November 2019
- _Bellevue College_, 2016 – 2019

---

_Last updated 2025-03-30_
